

# DESERT VM

What is Desert VM in short?
> A simple virtual machine for executing bytecode generated by [Ctuna](https://github.com/Nicolas-Sarmiento/CactusC) compiler.

---

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

---

## Introduction

A simple VM for interpreting bytecode generated by Ctuna compiler. The bytecode is simple and human readble. The purpose of this project is educative. So you can inspect and learn about compilers and Interpreters.

---

## Features

- Basic instructions support: push, pop, arithmetic operations, print , jump, jump if zero and more coming soon.
- Variable and function handling
- Control flow (jumps, conditional execution)
- Support for integers and strings

---
## Requirements

- **CMake** (version 3.20 or higher)
- **gcc** (version 10.0 or higher)
- **Ninja** (version 1.10 or higher)

Make sure these tools are installed and available in your system PATH.

## Installation

Clone this repository
```
git clone https://github.com/Nicolas-Sarmiento/DesertVM.git
```
then
```
cd DesertVM/
```
Build the project running the following command
```
make build
```
And it is ready to use!
---

## Usage

After building the project you can run the vm to run your compiled CactusC code by running this command.
```
./build/desert <bytecode-file.bcode>
```
## Examples
You can find some examples in the samples/ folder. You can see CactusC samples here

## contributing

This is an open-source project, and contributions from the community are highly welcome! Whether it's fixing bugs, adding new features, improving documentation, or suggesting ideas — your help will make this project better and more useful for everyone.

If you’re interested in contributing, please feel free to:

- Open issues to report bugs or request features.
- Submit pull requests with improvements.
- Share your feedback and ideas.

Together, we can build a powerful and helpful tool for the entire community. Thank you for your support!
## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details
